When companies perform content marketing with well-written resource articles, they often develop a lot of content at once. To start this, businesses research specific keywords that their website and content should target. These keywords are often relevant to the business’s industry or field. For instance, let’s say your company helps new authors self-publish their works. Some of the articles you write might include “how to self-publish your book,” “tips for a first-time publisher,” and “how to tell an engaging story.”

Each one of these articles might attract a specific audience to your website. Then, using well-placed calls-to-action, you can entice your visitors to interact with your company further. This can include scheduling a call, downloading content, or reading more articles on your site. On top of that, ensuring your content passes through an AI Content Detector can help maintain the integrity and authenticity of your articles, reassuring readers that your content is genuinely human-generated. Tools like an AI bypasser can be a great help in this.

What Is the Format of an Article?
Here are some steps to help you format your articles and improve their readability:

1. Add a Title
Your title defines the article’s topic and gives readers a preview of what they expect to read. When writing your title, it’s important to keep it between 50 and 60 characters. This will help ensure that Google and other search engines show the entire title on the search engine results page (SERP). It’s also helpful to make sure it’s enticing. Consider using different techniques, like adding numbers or promising the answer to a question. For example, “Marketing: A Definitive Guide” or “12 Tips For Changing Your Fashion Style” are both examples of eye-catching titles.

Looking for more tips on title creation? Check out our free eBook on how to create effective titles and headlines.

2. Include Your Name
Adding a name or author information to your article can help humanize your brand. This can allow you to build better relationships with readers and develop a community around your content. If you have a content team, have them take turns publishing posts with their own bylines and a bio at the end of the article. This might even encourage some of your readers to comment on your articles and start a conversation with the writer by asking them questions or voicing concerns about the material. This also gives your team the opportunity to showcase their expertise in a particular topic.

3. Write the Introduction
Your introduction tells your audience what the article is about and explains to them why they might find the information interesting. Often, an article’s introduction can mean the difference between someone continuing to read or immediately clicking away. Use strategies to catch your audience’s attention, like captivating narratives that outline a problem your target audience faces with the promise of demonstrating how to solve it.

Here are additional tips to improve your article’s introduction:

Keep introductions short and concise: Write three to four sentences for your introduction to inform the audience about what they can expect to read. Use writing techniques to generate suspense for the reader and enhance their curiosity about the article’s topic.
Shorten the length of sentences: Write shorter sentences so the reader can easily understand what you’re writing. Write in the present, active tense and remove filler words like “that,” “just,” “even,” and “seem” to strengthen the quality of your content.
Write the body first: Write the rest of your content before writing your intro paragraph to give you options on how to present your story. You may try to add the introduction with placeholder text and complete it once you write the rest of the article.
Deliver on promises: Only introduce topics your article will explain further. This approach builds trust with a reader because they want to read about what attracted them to your article.
4. Insert Your Body
The body of your article should include different headings that relate to the topic. For example, let’s say you’re writing an article on “how to change a tire.” Your headings might include “why is it important to know how to change a tire?,” “tips for changing a tire on a highway,” and “steps for changing your tire.” Under each of these headings, you can write short paragraphs that deliver unique information to the reader based on the subject of the heading.

Though the number of headings in an article may vary, it’s beneficial to have at least two. This can help break up the information and improve the readability of your piece. If you’re writing listicles or how-to articles, you can also create sub-headings for each of the steps or list items. Improving readability can ensure that your potential customers read your content for a longer period of time, which can reduce its bounce rate and increase its conversion rate.

5. Write a Conclusion
The conclusion restates the main point of your article. It gives the reader a clear picture of the lesson they should learn after reading the article’s content and how the main points connect with the purpose of the article. Conclusions should include a call-to-action, which gives the reader an action to perform once they finish reading your article. Explain the value of your call-to-action to give the reader an incentive to act on it once you present it to them.

These calls to action can include phrases like:

Sign Up Now
Schedule a Call
Download Today
Contact Us
Your calls to action can vary between articles or landing pages of your website depending on any ongoing marketing campaign or if there’s a subset of your target audience who will be visiting your content.

How To Write An Article For Your Business
Here are some steps to help you write a quality article for your business’s marketing efforts:

1. Define Your Topics
Pick a topic that can entice your target audience to read about your company or your client’s company. Write a list of engaging topics and evaluate how they’re relevant to your target audience. If you need to expand your list, conduct keyword research to find the highest-ranking articles on search engines. You might need to narrow down your list of topics based on their relevance and the difficulty of the keyword.

Once you have your keywords and topics, create a content schedule. This can help you develop deadlines for each article you write and ensure you’re posting consistently. When you post content consistently, it can help increase your audience’s loyalty and help them know when new content might be available.

2. Perform Research
Once you have the topics ready to go, it’s imperative that you perform research. This research can help you deliver quality and accurate information to your readers. It can also help you understand the most popular headings other businesses use for their topics. For instance, let’s say you’re writing an article on “how to write a book.” When you search that keyword into Google, take a look at the top-ranking articles. Do any of them have similar headings? What kind of information do they cover beside the main topic? Use this information and bring it to your own audience.

If you need to perform additional research on content, look at different types of evidence to support the main points of your article. Some data you may find for your article includes:

Statistics
Quotes relevant to your topic
Definitions of industry-specific words (if applicable)
Current events on industry topics
Facts from national and local news outlets
Company data separate from what’s available on SERPs